# SQL-in-Action

## Table of contents
- [Dataset Description](#dataset-description)
- [Objective](#objective)
- [Data Setup](#data-setup)
- [SQL Queries](#sql-queries)
- [Data Management](#data-management)
- [Joining Tables](joining-tables)

### Dataset Description: 
 Dataset contains information about online retail sales transactions. It includes the following columns:
  - Transaction_ID: Unique identifier for each transaction.
  - Customer_ID: Unique identifier for each customer.
  - Transaction_Date: Date of the transaction.
  - Product_ID: Unique identifier for each product.
  - Product_Name: Name of the product.
  - Unit_Price: Price per unit of the product.
  - Quantity: Number of units purchased in the transaction.
  - Total_Price: Total price of the transaction.
  - Country: Country where the transaction took place.
  - Payment_Method: Payment method used for the transaction.

You can get a copy of the dataset [here](assets/dataset/Retail_transaction.csv).

### Objective:
I used **Microsoft SQL server** to write and run my SQL queries.

### Data Setup:
1. I created a table alias Transactions.
2. Inserted the dataset into the Transactions table.

### SQL Queries:
-	Retrieved the first 10 records from the dataset using the <sup>SELECT</sup> and <sup>LIMIT</sup> functions.
-	Calculated the total number of transactions in the dataset using the <sup>SELECT</sup> and <sup>COUNT()</sup> functions.
-	Found the total revenue generated from online sales using the <sup>SUM()</sup> function.
-	Identified the top 5 best selling products by quantity sold using the <sup>SELECT</sup>, <sup>ORDER BY</sup>, and <sup>LIMIT</sup> functions.
-	Calculated the average unit price of products sold using the <sup>AVG()</sup> function.
-	Determined the total sales revenue generated by each country.
-	Found the total quantity of products purchased by each customer.
-	Identified the most common payment method used for transactions.
  
### Data Management:
 Created a new table named customer_info with columns for customer details such as '*Customer_ID*', '*Customer_Name*', and '*Email*'.
   
   Used the <sup>CREATE TABLE</sup> function for this.

Inserted sample customer data into the newly created table.

  (table containing the data)
   Used the <sup>INSERT INTO</sup> function for this.
##### sql code

Updated the dataset(inserted into Transactions table) to include a new column '*Discount*' and calculate a 10% discount for each transaction.
Used the <sup>UPDATE</sup> function for this.

Deleted transactions with a quantity of 0 or negative values.
Used the <sup>DELETE</sup> function for this.

### Joining Tables:

Performed inner joins between the original dataset and the 'Customer_Info' table based on the '*Customer_ID*' column.
Sql code and pic
Wrote a query to retrieve transaction details along with corresponding customer information.
Sql code and pic

### SQL Functions:
Utilized SQL functions to...

Calculated the total price for each transaction (*Unit_Price* * *Quantity*).
Sql code and pic

Extracted the month and year from the '*Transaction_Date*' column.

Concatenated the '*Product_Name*' and '*Country*' columns to create a new column '*Product_Location*'.
